From: http://www.boardgamegeek.com/thread/298426/four-on-a-couch-a-great-game-not-in-bggs-database

Four-On-A-Couch
This challenging memory game is great for large gatherings (from eight to just about any number of people), and is a great one to use to get to know new people, since the action revolves around the names of the people playing. 

Props: Small slip of paper for each player to write their name down on.

Goal of the Game: Get four members of your team sitting on "the couch" and boot the other team off of it.

How To Play: Divide the group into two teams that preferably are easy to distinguish between (e.g. girls vs. boys, long-sleeved shirts vs. short-sleeved shirts). To start with, 2 people from each group need to sit together in a row in a part of the room reserved for them. A couch/sofa works great for this, but a row of four chairs or a special spot on the floor works fine too. Everyone else needs to sit in a circle that extends from one end of the group of 4 around to the other, and it doesn't really matter who sits where. One other significant rule: One of the seating places in the room must be empty to start with. Throughout the course of the game, there will always be one seat that is empty, but that seat will change constantly.

Everyone writes their names down the slip of paper given to them, and then all of the slips are thrown together into a common bowl. The slips are mixed up, and then each person randomly takes one of the slips out of the bowl, looks at the name they picked, while keeping it hidden from everyone else.

The gameplay is simple. The player sitting to the right of the empty seat calls out a name - any name of one of the players- and the player who has the slip of paper with that player's name on it gets up from their seat and moves to the empty space beside the person who just called. Those two players then swap their slips of papers. This means the person who just called the name now holds that name in his hand. Everyone else now knows who will have to move to the empty space if they call that name. It also means that the person who just called the name knows the secret identity of the person that moved. 

For example, let's say I'm sitting to the right of the empty chair at the start of the game. I call for "Aldie". It turns out that Grognards is holding the slip of paper that says "Aldie", so he gets up from his seat (which happens to be the extreme right side of the couch with 4 on it), and sits down beside me in the previously empty chair. Now he gives me his slip of paper, so I become "Aldie", matching what everyone heard me say. I hand my slip of paper (which says "Michael Barnes") to Grognards, so now I know his secret identity, but no one else does.

Gameplay continues in the same way. Now the person to the right of the empty seat calls the next name. The only rule to remember when calling names is that you can't call the name just called in the turn previous. If the empty seat is a spot on the couch, you have the golden opportunity of trying to remember or guess the "secret" name of a person on your team, to try to pull them onto the couch. If the empty seat is somewhere other than the couch, the goal is to remember, or guess the "secret" names of any person on the couch that belongs to the other team, so you can pull him/her off.

Play continues until one team gets all four spaces on the couch filled with members of their team.

This game rewards people with great memories. It's amazing how difficult this can be, even for very smart adults. Things can change fast, and everyone has to stay engaged and pay close attention, even if they are not getting many turns to call out a name themselves, just so that they are ready for when their turn might come.

I've played this many times, and it's almost always a big enough hit that the tradition gets spread to more houses as a result. 

Let me know what your experience playing this has been if you've tried it. Or if you know of some successful "variants". 
